4.-documentation/f.adding-images.md, before:

# Adding Images

Adding images in Stoplight is now easier than ever. Add images to your project to create beautiful documentation layouts that supplement text content.

## Why add Images?

Visual help on your documentation compliments the text on it, and gets your users to their goals faster. Add flowcharts, infographics or screenshots on pages like **Getting Started guides** and **Authentication guides** to help explain flows and use cases better. 

You can add multiple images within a documentation file. 

<!-- theme: info -->
> 👉 **Note:** Supported  image formats include: **JPEG,** **JPG**, **PNG** and **GIF**.

## Adding Images to Projects

Drag and drop an image or copy and paste an image into a markdown article to upload it. 

![Add an Image](../assets/images/image-upload.gif)

> These images are stored in Stoplight and respect project permissions (private vs. internal).

## Customize Images

To customize images, such as adding backgrounds, captions or focus, check out [images in Stoplight Flavored Markdown](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/studio/ZG9jOjg0-stoplight-flavored-markdown-smd).

**Splendid! Your documentation now contains images. Your users are gonna love it 👏**


## What's Next?

Here's what you can do next, once you have added images to your documentation: 

- [Sharing Documentation](../1.-quickstarts/share-documentation-quickstart.md)

Commit message:

Docs/pam 171 quick fixes (#189)
Project reorg and workspace settings

4.-documentation/f.adding-images.md, after:

# Adding Images

Adding images in Stoplight is now easier than ever. Add images to your project to create beautiful documentation layouts that supplement text content.

## Why add Images?

Visual help on your documentation compliments the text on it, and gets your users to their goals faster. Add flowcharts, infographics or screenshots on pages like **Getting Started guides** and **Authentication guides** to help explain flows and use cases better. 

You can add multiple images within a documentation file. 

<!-- theme: info -->
> 👉 **Note:** Supported  image formats include: **JPEG,** **JPG**, **PNG** and **GIF**.

## Adding Images to Projects

Drag and drop an image or copy and paste an image into a markdown article to upload it. 

![Add an Image](../assets/images/image-upload.gif)

> These images are stored in Stoplight and respect project permissions (private vs. internal).

## Customize Images

To customize images, such as adding backgrounds, captions or focus, check out [images in Stoplight Flavored Markdown](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/studio/ZG9jOjg0-stoplight-flavored-markdown-smd).

**Splendid! Your documentation now contains images. Your users are gonna love it 👏**


## What's Next?

With your documentation ready, let users experience it by sharing it. For external users, share your URL. For internal or private projects, [invite users](../2.-workspaces/d.inviting-your-team.md) to the workspace directly.
