a.introduction.md, before:

# Welcome to the Stoplight Docs!

Stoplight Platform is first and foremost an API design management tool, which can be used to design, develop, test, and document HTTP APIs using industry standards like OpenAPI, and Markdown for written-form documentation.

#### Quickstart

1. [Add Projects](1.-quickstarts/add-projects-quickstart.md)
1. [Share Documentation](1.-quickstarts/share-documentation-quickstart.md)

#### Getting Started with Stoplight in your organization
1. [Creating a Workspace](2.-workspaces/a.creating-a-workspace.md)
1. [Adding Projects](2.-workspaces/b.adding-projects.md)
1. [Inviting your Team](2.-workspaces/d.inviting-your-team.md)
1. [Configuring Git](2.-workspaces/configure-git/a.configuring-git.md)

#### Design with Stoplight
1. [Overview](3.-design/a.overview.md)
1. [Starting a new API Design](3.-design/b.starting-a-new-api-design.md)
1. [Reviewing your API Design](3.-design/c.reviewing-your-api-design.md)
1. [Setting up a Mock Server](3.-design/d.setting-up-a-mock-server.md)

#### Governance with Stoplight
1. [Overview](4.-governance/a.overview.md)
1. [Getting Started with API Governance](4.-governance/b.getting-started-with-api-governance.md)
1. [Exploring your Projects](4.-governance/bb.exploring-your-api-projects.md)
1. [Creating a Design Library](4.-governance/c.creating-a-design-library.md)
1. [Creating Style Guides](4.-governance/d.style-guides.md)

#### Developer Experience with Stoplight
1. [Overview](5.-developer-experience/a.overview.md)
1. [Getting Started with Developer Experience](5.-developer-experience/b.getting-started-developer-experience.md)

Commit message:

focus on documentation (#79)
* typos in workspaces

* rename devex to docs

fixes #61: focus on documentation itself and we can talk about devex more specifically later. for now we're explaining that theres several types of docs and you need them all

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Nauman <mnaumanali94@gmail.com>

* updatedl inks

* reenable link checker

* on push

* modified files only

* fixed more links

Co-authored-by: Phil Sturgeon <me@philsturgeon.uk>
Co-authored-by: Nauman <mnaumanali94@gmail.com>

a.introduction.md, after:

# Welcome to the Stoplight Docs!

Stoplight Platform is first and foremost an API design management tool, which can be used to design, develop, test, and document HTTP APIs using industry standards like OpenAPI, and Markdown for written-form documentation.

### Quick-start

1. [Add Projects](1.-quickstarts/add-projects-quickstart.md)
1. [Share Documentation](1.-quickstarts/share-documentation-quickstart.md)

### Getting Started with Stoplight

1. [Creating a Workspace](2.-workspaces/a.creating-a-workspace.md)
1. [Adding Projects](2.-workspaces/b.adding-projects.md)
1. [Inviting your Team](2.-workspaces/d.inviting-your-team.md)
1. [Configuring Git](2.-workspaces/configure-git/a.configuring-git.md)

### Design with Stoplight

1. [Overview](3.-design/a.overview.md)
2. [Starting an API Design](3.-design/b.starting-a-new-api-design.md)
3. [Reviewing an API Design](3.-design/c.reviewing-your-api-design.md)
4. [Setting up a Mock Server](3.-design/d.setting-up-a-mock-server.md)

### Documentation with Stoplight

1. [Overview](4.-documentation/a.overview.md)
1. [Types of Documentation](4.-documentation/b.types-of-documentation.md)
2. [Quality API Reference Documentation](4.-documentation/c.quality-api-reference-docs.md)

### Governance with Stoplight

1. [Overview](5.-governance/a.overview.md)
1. [Getting Started with API Governance](5.-governance/b.getting-started-with-api-governance.md)
1. [Exploring your Projects](5.-governance/bb.exploring-your-api-projects.md)
1. [Creating a Design Library](5.-governance/c.creating-a-design-library.md)
1. [Creating Style Guides](5.-governance/d.style-guides.md)
