4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.workspace-sidebar.md, before:

# Workspace Sidebar

The sidebar is the primary navigation for all workspaces and contains the following elements:

1. **Search** - Available to all users, but will only return results for Projects the user has access to.
2. **Explore** - Available to workspace members only. The explorer makes it easier to find , search, and manage all available API artifacts.
3. **Projects** - For workspace members, all the projects that you've either joined or created will show up in your sidebar. External users (i.e., not logged in) will only see public projects. Learn to [manage Project-level access](../../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md).
4. **Groups** - Customers on either *Professional* or *Enterprise* plans can further control their sidebars by creating groups of projects. Learn more about [Groups](../../2.-workspaces/m.groups.md).

<!-- focus: center -->
![sidebar_acme.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/gWE4VigryNY)

## Join Projects & Groups
Populate your sidebar by navigating to your Projects list or Groups list, then **joining** or **leaving** the projects and groups relevant to you.

![main_menu_both.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/JJGe8oHYbLw)

![join_projects.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/hBOloNlRxmE)

Commit message:

Added guest sidebar visibility section; light editing (#182)

4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.workspace-sidebar.md, after:

# Workspace Sidebar

The sidebar is the primary navigation for all workspaces and contains the following elements:

1. **Search** - Available to all users, but only returns results for Projects users have access to.
2. **Explore** - Available to logged-in workspace members only. The explorer makes it easier to find, search, and manage all available API artifacts.
3. **Projects** - For workspace members, all projects that you've joined or created are shown in the sidebar. External users (those not logged in) see only public projects. Learn to [manage project-level access](../../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md).
4. **Groups** - Customers on either *Professional* or *Enterprise* plans can further control their sidebars by creating groups of projects. Learn more about [Groups](../../2.-workspaces/m.groups.md).

<!-- focus: center -->
![sidebar_acme.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/gWE4VigryNY)

## Join Projects & Groups
All logged-in workspace members, except guests, can populate their sidebar by navigating to the Projects list or Groups list, then **joining** or **leaving** relevant projects and groups. 

![main_menu_both.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/JJGe8oHYbLw)

![join_projects.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/hBOloNlRxmE)

## Guest Sidebar Visibility

To help ease project setup, the sidebar for guests automatically shows:

- Public projects
- Projects that guests have been invited to or joined
- Non-private projects in groups that guests have been invited to or joined
