4.-documentation/Sidebar/d.table-of-contents.md, before:

# Project Sidebar

Project documentation contains a single left sidebar called the **Table of Contents** (or ToC). The [default structure](#the-default-structure) of this sidebar loosely follows the filesystem of the project, with a few exceptions for APIs and models. You can customize the appearance of this sidebar using a Table of Contents file (`toc.json`), which supports:

- Customizing the order of files in the sidebar
- Overriding the title of a file in the sidebar
- Selectively exposing files in the sidebar, allowing you to hide items by not including them in your Table of Contents file
- Using redirects to send users to documentation files that have been moved or renamed. See  [Redirects](../e2.configure-redirects.md).

![studio demo documentation](../../assets/images/studio-demo-docs.png)

> ### Limitations
> 
> There are a few known limitations with this functionality:
> 
> 1. **You can only reorder articles, APIs, and model files.** Endpoints and internal models will follow the [default structure](#the-default-structure) outlined below. [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/110-custom-ordering-for-endpoints-and-models)
> 2. **The `toc.json` file must be written by hand.** [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/112-table-of-contents-editor)
> 3. **Renaming a file does not automatically update the `toc.json`.** You'll need to remember to update your TOC whenever a file is renamed. Otherwise your project sidebar might contain broken links. [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/96-automatically-rewrite-references-and-links-on-filename-change)
> 

## Overview

There are three types of entities in the Table of Contents:

![toc element overview](../../assets/images/toc-overview.png)

### Dividers

Dividers are bold, non-clickable items that signify the start of a section of content within the sidebar.

### Groups

Groups are non-linkable, collapsible items containing items and other groups that all relate to the same subject matter. Dividers cannot be nested within a group.

### Items

Items are links to articles, APIs, and model files located within the project directory or external links to content outside of the documentation.

## Add a TOC to a Project

1. Edit a project, and then select the **Add** icon.
2. Select **Table of Contents**. A toc.json file opens in the Editor panel. It is organized using the [default structure](#the-default-structure).
3. Organize items in the structure to meet your needs.
4. Select **Preview** to verify the structure.

To revert your changes, select **Generate Default Content** to return the toc.json file to its original state. 

## Create Your Own TOC

You can create a custom table of contents file. To get started, create a `toc.json` file in your project's **root directory**.

### Rules

The `toc.json` file should start off with an empty `items` array where you will define your content structure using [dividers](#dividers), [groups](#groups) and [items](#items).

<!-- title: toc.json -->
```json
{
  "items": []
}
```

Note:

- Each entity should have a `type` and a `title` property. 
- Items should also have a `uri` property that either points to a file somewhere within the project or an external link to another website. 
- Groups should have an `items` property allowing you to futher nest more items and groups.

> **TIP**: The easiest way to get a file's URI in Studio is right-click on the file, select **Copy Path**, and then paste the contents into the JSON file.
>

### Example

Here is an example to demonstrate the format of the `toc.json` file. 

<!--
title: toc.json
-->
```json
{
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "divider",
      "title": "Divider"
    },
    {
      "type": "item",
      "title": "Item",
      "uri": "docs/table-of-contents.md"
    },
    {
      "type": "group",
      "title": "Group",
      "items": [
        {
          "type": "item",
          "title": "Nested Item",
          "uri": "docs/nested-item.md"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "type": "item",
      "title": "External Link",
      "uri": "https://stoplight.io"
    }
  ]
}
```

The above `toc.json` file displays the following structure in the docs sidebar.

![custom toc example](../../assets/images/custom-toc-example.png)

### Endpoint Reordering

To reorder endpoint groups:

1. Create global tags. The easiest way to do this is to select the API overview from the **Form** view, select the tag icon, and then add tags.
<!-- focus: center -->
![global-tags.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/6qZrKIl2LCU)

2. Order the global tags. The easiest way to do this to switch to **Code** view, scroll to the bottom of the editor, and change the order of the tags.
<!-- focus: center -->
![reorder-tags.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/o2rWrFPDrpI)

3. Assign tags to each endpoint to determine which group it will be listed under.

4. Publish and review the results.
<!-- focus: center -->
![tag-order.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/UcWagdp1nqg)

## The Default Structure

When the `toc.json` file is not present, the default structure is organized based on a few factors, such as the file type, but primarily follows the same alphanumeric ordering of the filesystem.

### Articles

Markdown articles come first in the table of contents and are ordered alphabetically by their file path. The first directory is represented as a [divider](#dividers) and any directories after appear as [groups](#groups). 

- The Docs folder is flattened and is not represented in the table of contents. 
- Any articles located in the root of the project are sorted to the top. 
<!-- - If a `README.md` file exists, it is put in the first position.-->

### APIs

APIs are listed below articles. A [divider](#dividers) separates APIs from articles, and each API's title is represented as group. This group contains overview information, such as the API's description, contact, licensing, servers and global security. 

Tags determine endpoint ordering:

- Endpoints or models without tags are placed at the root level and follow the order in the specification. 
- All API endpoints and models are nested inside [groups](#groups) titled after their first tag. 
- Within each group, endpoints and models follow the order in the specification.

### Schemas

At the bottom of the table of contents are JSON Schema model files that are outside of an API specification. Models are sorted alphabetically under a [divider](#dividers) titled "Schemas."

Tags determine schema model ordering:

- Models without tags are placed at the root level and ordered by endpoint or model name. 
- All Models are nested inside [groups](#groups) titled after their first tag.

Commit message:

Pam 256 toc tweaks (#264)
Updated wording for listed/unlisted branches; added validation and hints.

4.-documentation/Sidebar/d.table-of-contents.md, after:

# Project Sidebar

Project documentation contains a single left sidebar called the **Table of Contents** (or ToC). The [default structure](#the-default-structure) of this sidebar loosely follows the file system of the project, with a few exceptions for APIs and models. 

You can customize the appearance of this sidebar using a Table of Contents file (`toc.json`), which supports:

- Customizing the order of files in the sidebar
- Overriding the title of a file in the sidebar
- Selectively exposing files in the sidebar, allowing you to hide items by not including them in your Table of Contents file
- Using redirects to send users to documentation files that have been moved or renamed. See  [Redirects](../e2.configure-redirects.md).

![studio demo documentation](../../assets/images/studio-demo-docs.png)

> ### Limitations
> 
> There are a few known limitations with this functionality:
> 
> 1. **You can only reorder articles, APIs, and model files.** Endpoints and internal models will follow the [default structure](#the-default-structure) outlined below. [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/110-custom-ordering-for-endpoints-and-models)
> 2. **The `toc.json` file must be written by hand.** [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/112-table-of-contents-editor)
> 3. **Renaming a file does not automatically update the `toc.json`.** You'll need to remember to update your TOC whenever a file is renamed. Otherwise your project sidebar might contain broken links. [(roadmap)](https://roadmap.stoplight.io/c/96-automatically-rewrite-references-and-links-on-filename-change)
> 

## Overview

There are three types of entities in the Table of Contents:

![toc element overview](../../assets/images/toc-overview.png)

### Dividers

Dividers are bold, non-clickable items that signify the start of a section of content within the sidebar.

### Groups

Groups are non-linkable, collapsible items containing items and other groups that all relate to the same subject matter. Dividers cannot be nested within a group.

### Items

Items are links to articles, APIs, and model files located within the project directory or external links to content outside of the documentation. Optionally, use the `title` property to override the item's default title in the table of contents.

## Add a TOC to a Project

1. Edit a project, and then select the **Add** icon.
2. Select **Table of Contents**. A toc.json file opens in the Editor panel. It is organized using the [default structure](#the-default-structure).
3. Organize items in the structure to meet your needs and add new items using the rules below. 
4. Select **Preview** to verify the structure.

Validation is provided to help you correct errors before you publish.

![toc-validation.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/5Tr1xFQBeg0)


To revert your changes, select **Generate Default Content** to return the toc.json file to its original state. 

## Create Your Own TOC

You can create a custom table of contents file. To get started, create a `toc.json` file in your project's **root directory**.

The `toc.json` file should start off with an empty `items` array where you will define your content structure using [dividers](#dividers), [groups](#groups) and [items](#items).

<!-- title: toc.json -->
```json
{
  "items": []
}
```

## TOC Rules

- Each entity should have a `type` and a `title` property. 
- Items should also have a `uri` property that either points to a file somewhere within the project or an external link to another website. 
- Groups should have an `items` property allowing you to futher nest more items and groups.

Press **CMD+Space** to open a list of hints for items you can add to the TOC.

> **TIP**: The easiest way to get a file's URI in Studio is right-click on the file, select **Copy Path**, and then paste the contents into the JSON file.
>

### Example

Here is an example to demonstrate the format of the `toc.json` file. 

<!--
title: toc.json
-->
```json
{
  "items": [
    {
      "type": "divider",
      "title": "Divider"
    },
    {
      "type": "item",
      "title": "Item",
      "uri": "docs/table-of-contents.md"
    },
    {
      "type": "group",
      "title": "Group",
      "items": [
        {
          "type": "item",
          "title": "Nested Item",
          "uri": "docs/nested-item.md"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "type": "item",
      "title": "External Link",
      "uri": "https://stoplight.io"
    }
  ]
}
```

The above `toc.json` file displays the following structure in the docs sidebar.

![custom toc example](../../assets/images/custom-toc-example.png)

## Endpoint Group Reordering

To reorder endpoint groups:

1. Create global tags. The easiest way to do this is to select the API overview from the **Form** view, select the tag icon, and then add tags.
<!-- focus: center -->
![global-tags.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/6qZrKIl2LCU)

2. Order the global tags. The easiest way to do this to switch to **Code** view, scroll to the bottom of the editor, and change the order of the tags.
<!-- focus: center -->
![reorder-tags.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/o2rWrFPDrpI)

3. Assign tags to each endpoint to determine which group it will be listed under.

4. Publish and review the results.
<!-- focus: center -->
![tag-order.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/UcWagdp1nqg)

## The Default Structure

When the `toc.json` file is not present, the default structure is organized based on a few factors, such as the file type, but primarily follows the same alphanumeric ordering of the filesystem.

### Articles

Markdown articles come first in the table of contents and are ordered alphabetically by their file path. The first directory is represented as a [divider](#dividers) and any directories after appear as [groups](#groups). 

- The Docs folder is flattened and is not represented in the table of contents. 
- Any articles located in the root of the project are sorted to the top. 
<!-- - If a `README.md` file exists, it is put in the first position.-->

### APIs

APIs are listed below articles. A [divider](#dividers) separates APIs from articles, and each API's title is represented as group. This group contains overview information, such as the API's description, contact, licensing, servers and global security. 

Tags determine endpoint ordering:

- Endpoints or models without tags are placed at the root level and follow the order in the specification. 
- All API endpoints and models are nested inside [groups](#groups) titled after their first tag. 
- Within each group, endpoints and models follow the order in the specification.

### Schemas

At the bottom of the table of contents are JSON Schema model files that are outside of an API specification. Models are sorted alphabetically under a [divider](#dividers) titled "Schemas."

Tags determine schema model ordering:

- Models without tags are placed at the root level and ordered by endpoint or model name. 
- All Models are nested inside [groups](#groups) titled after their first tag.
