# Create a Style Guide

<!-- theme: warning -->
>**Warning**:
>Limited early access content for Shared Style Guides. Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans for early access participants.  

Style guides are a type of project that contain only style guide targets and rules. Like traditional projects, you can set the style guide visibility and share the style guide with other collaborators. You can publish style guide documentation so others can learn about your governance program (publishing documentation is not available in early access). 

Follow this process to create, publish, share, and enable a style guide:

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Add** icon (+) at the top of the left pane.
2. From the **Select Project Type** page, select **Style Guide**, and then select **Continue**.
3. From the **Create a Style Guide** page, enter a title, and then select **Create Style Guide**.
   - Create targets to reference commonly used areas of API specification documents, such as OpenAPI or AsyncAPI, in rules. See [Create Targets](b-create-targets.md).
   - Create rules that enforce your styles and standards. See [Create Rules](c-create-rules.md).
4. Publish the style guide. See [Publish Style Guides](e.publish-style-guide.md).
5. Enable the style guide for API projects. See [Enable Style Guides](d-enable-style-guide.md).
6. Periodically refresh style guides to consume updates. See [Refresh Style Guides](f.refresh-style-guide.md).

See our [rule examples](g-rule-examples.md) to get started.


