2a.-style-guides/a1.create-style-guide.md, before:

# Create a Style Guide

<!-- theme: info -->
<!--Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.--> 

<!-- focus: false -->
![Feature Preview](../assets/images/badge-preview-small.png)

*Style guides are available for new workspaces and on request. Contact nauman@stoplight.io for more information.*

All API projects include the [Stoplight Style Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/stoplight-style-guide) by default. You can use or modify the Stoplight Style Guide on any plan. On Professional and Enterprise plans, you can create your own shared style guide or import an existing Spectral ruleset as a starting point.

## Shared Style Guides
Shared style guides are a type of project that contain only style guide targets and rules. Like traditional projects, you can share the style guide with other collaborators and publish style guide documentation so others can learn about your governance program.

Members who can edit projects can enable style guides for those projects. See [Project Roles](../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md#project-roles) for more information. 

Style guides always have internal visibility, meaning they are available for workspace members. Members who can edit projects can enable style guides for those projects. See [Project Roles](../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md#project-roles) for more information.

### Shared Style Guide Workflow

https://youtu.be/O5wtCCoL6Nc

To create, publish, share, and enable a style guide:

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Add** icon (+) at the top of the left pane.
2. From the **Select Project Type** page, select **Style Guide**, and then select **Continue**.
3. From the **Create a Style Guide** page, select one of these options:
    - **Create Style Guide**: Use this option to start from scratch.
    - **Import Spectral File**: Use this option to import an existing [Spectral file](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjI1MTg5-custom-rulesets).
4. Create targets to reference commonly used areas of API specification documents, such as OpenAPI or AsyncAPI, in rules. See [Create Targets](b-create-targets.md).
5. Create rules that enforce your styles and standards. See [Create Rules](c-create-rules.md).
6. Publish the style guide. See [Publish Style Guides](e.publish-style-guide.md).
7. Enable the style guide for API projects. See [Enable Style Guides](d-enable-style-guide.md).
8. Periodically refresh style guides to consume updates. See [Refresh Style Guides](f.refresh-style-guide.md).

## Local Style Guides

Local style guides are embedded within an API project. They cannot be shared with other projects.

You can add custom rules, targets and functions to the default style guide. You can also disable default rules and targets as needed.

## Style Guides and Git Projects

Style guide projects are stored in Stoplight. You can use style guides with Git, however.

### Existing Spectral Rulesets

Existing [Spectral rulesets](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjYyMDc0NA-rulesets) (usually called spectral.json) can be viewed and modified on the **Styles** tab.

When you push changes made to a style guide based on this ruleset to Git, your spectral.json file is updated in your repository. Changes made to the spectral.json file made outside of Stoplight are not synced back to your style guide project.

This enables you to use your spectral.json file in other systems while maintaining integrity between Stoplight and the external systems.

### New Style Guides and Rules

When you enable a style guide for or create rules in an API project that is connected to Git, a spectral.json is added to your repository when you push changes.

See our [rule examples](g-rule-examples.md) to get started.

Commit message:

Pam 331 new project flow (#334)
* Update new flow screenshot and steps

2a.-style-guides/a1.create-style-guide.md, after:

# Create a Style Guide

<!-- theme: info -->
<!--Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.--> 

<!-- focus: false -->
![Feature Preview](../assets/images/badge-preview-small.png)

*Style guides are available for new workspaces and on request. Contact nauman@stoplight.io for more information.*

All API projects include the [Stoplight Style Guide](https://apistylebook.stoplight.io/docs/stoplight-style-guide) by default. You can use or modify the Stoplight Style Guide on any plan. On Professional and Enterprise plans, you can create your own shared style guide or import an existing Spectral ruleset as a starting point.

## Shared Style Guides
Shared style guides are a type of project that contain only style guide targets and rules. Like traditional projects, you can share the style guide with other collaborators and publish style guide documentation so others can learn about your governance program.

Members who can edit projects can enable style guides for those projects. See [Project Roles](../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md#project-roles) for more information. 

Style guides always have internal visibility, meaning they are available for workspace members. Members who can edit projects can enable style guides for those projects. See [Project Roles](../2.-workspaces/l.project-roles.md#project-roles) for more information.

### Create a Shared Style Guide

To create, publish, share, and enable a style guide:

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Add** icon (+) at the top of the left pane.
2. From the **Select Project Type** page, select **Style Guide**, and then select **Continue**.

![New Style Guide](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/2SxFV8GGyxo)


3. From the **Create a Style Guide** page, select one of these options:
    - **Create Style Guide**: Use this option to start from scratch. Provide a project name, visability level, and, optionally, a group to help organize your projects (Professional plan and above).
    - **Import Spectral File**: Use this option to import an existing [Spectral file](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjI1MTg5-custom-rulesets). Choose the file to import, name your project, and, optionally, a group (Professional plan and above).

Once your style guide is created:

* Create targets to reference commonly used areas of API specification documents, such as OpenAPI or AsyncAPI, in rules. See [Create Targets](b-create-targets.md).
* Create rules that enforce your styles and standards. See [Create Rules](c-create-rules.md).
* Publish the style guide. See [Publish Style Guides](e.publish-style-guide.md).
* Enable the style guide for API projects. See [Enable Style Guides](d-enable-style-guide.md).
* Periodically refresh style guides to consume updates. See [Refresh Style Guides](f.refresh-style-guide.md).

## Local Style Guides

Local style guides are embedded within an API project. They cannot be shared with other projects.

You can add custom rules, targets and functions to the default style guide. You can also disable default rules and targets as needed.

## Style Guides and Git Projects

Style guide projects are stored in Stoplight. You can use style guides with Git, however.

### Existing Spectral Rulesets

Existing [Spectral rulesets](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjYyMDc0NA-rulesets) (usually called spectral.json) can be viewed and modified on the **Styles** tab.

When you push changes made to a style guide based on this ruleset to Git, your spectral.json file is updated in your repository. Changes made to the spectral.json file made outside of Stoplight are not synced back to your style guide project.

This enables you to use your spectral.json file in other systems while maintaining integrity between Stoplight and the external systems.

### New Style Guides and Rules

When you enable a style guide for or create rules in an API project that is connected to Git, a spectral.json is added to your repository when you push changes.

See our [rule examples](g-rule-examples.md) to get started.
