2a.-style-guides/b-create-targets.md, before:

# Create Targets

<!-- theme: warning -->
>**Warning**:
>Limited early access content for Shared Style Guides. Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans for early access participants. 

Add targets to your style guide to reference commonly used areas of API specification documents, such as OpenAPI or AsyncAPI, in rules. Use a JSON path to define the target area. 

>**Tip**
>Use our [JSONPath Plus guidelines]( https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjYyMDc0NA-rulesets#jsonpath-plus) to format the JSON path. 

Reuse targets across rules in your style guide to target specific areas of the API specifications. To reference a particular property in an area, specify it when you [create a rule](c-create-rules.md). 

## Add a Target

To create a target:

1. Edit a style guide project. 
2. In the **Targets** area of the left pane, select the plus icon next to Local to open the **Target** editor.
3. In the **Target** editor:
    - Add a name for your target. There are no restrictions on the name format, but kabab case is recommended.
    - Select the **Description** box to open a markdown editor. Add information that will be included in the style guide documentation.
    - Select the API specification for the target (oas3.x, asyncapi2, etc.).
    - Add a JSON path to target a specific area of an API specification.

## Target Example
To enforce rules on paths, create an OAS3.1 target with this JSON path:

`$.paths.*`

![style-guide-paths-target2.png](https://meta.stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/ofvcfD4kxOg)

[What's Next: Create Rules](c-create-rules.md)

Commit message:

Pam 234 ga style guide updates (#275)
GA Style Guide content

2a.-style-guides/b-create-targets.md, after:

# Create Targets

<!-- theme: info -->
>Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.  

Add targets to your style guide to reference commonly used areas of API specification documents, such as OpenAPI or AsyncAPI, in rules. Use a JSON path to define the target area. You can add simple targets or more complex targets with multiple specification types (OAS 3.1 and asyncapi 2.0, for example) and multiple JSON paths for each specitition type. 

>**Tip**
>Use our [JSONPath Plus guidelines]( https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjYyMDc0NA-rulesets#jsonpath-plus) to format the JSON path. 

Reuse targets across rules in your style guide to target specific areas of the API specifications. To reference a particular property in an area, specify it when you [create a rule](c-create-rules.md). 

## Add a Target

To create a target:

1. Edit a style guide project or a project that has a style guide enabled. 
2. In the **Targets** area of the left pane, select **+ Add** to open the **Target** editor.
3. In the **Target** editor:
    - Add a name that contains no spaces.
    - Select **Add markdown here** in the **Description** to open a markdown editor and add a description so others understand when to use the target.
    - Select **Add new format**, and then select a specification type (oas3.x, asyncapi2, etc.).
    - Add a JSON path to target a specific area of an API specification.
4. Add addtional formats and paths as needed.

![style-guide-targets.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/KSsNYD2pDHA)

## Target Example
To enforce rules on paths, create an OAS3.1 target with this JSON path:

`$.paths.*`

![style-guide-paths-target.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/agsDhzXTkHE)

[What's Next: Create Rules](c-create-rules.md)
