2a.-style-guides/c-create-rules.md, before:

# Create Rules

<!-- theme: info -->
>Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.  

See our [rule examples](g-rule-examples.md) to get started.

## Add a Rule

To create a rule:

1. Edit a style guide project or a project that has a style guide enabled.
2. In the **Rules** area of the left pane, select the plus icon next to Local to open the **Rules** editor in the right pane.
3. Configure the three main rule areas:
    - [Rule Settings](#Rule-Settings)
    - [Given](#Given-Settings)
    - [Then](#Then-Settings)

### Rule Settings

Set severity, name, message returned in validation, and the description for documenting the rule.

- **Rule severity**
   Options are error, warning, information, and hint. When applied to an API project, the severity levels appear in the **API Design** editor. 
   ![Rule severity icons](../assets/images/rule-severity-indicators.png)
   You can also choose to disable a rule.

- **Name**

   Provide a short descriptive name that contains no spaces. Example: `require-description`.

- **Message**
  
   Provide the message that will appear in the validation results list in the **API Design** editor. Add your own message text or include placeholders that are evaluated at runtime: 

   - `{{error}}`: Returns the function error. 
   - `{{description}}`: Returns the rule's description.
   - `{{path}}`: Returns the full path to the property in the API design document. 
   - `{{property}}`: Returns the last segment of the property path in the API design document.
   - `{{value}}`" Returns the linted value in the API design document. 

- **Description**

  Open the Markdown editor to add helpful information used to document the rule.

### Given Settings

Set the area of the API specification the rule applies to.

- **Target** 

  Select a target to specify the area of an API specification document. Targets are predefined and required for each rule. See [Create Targets](b-create-targets.md).

- **Property**

  Add properties to reference a specific entity in the target. For example, when you target the `$tags[*]` area of the OAS 3.1 specification, enter `description` to enforce rules on tag descriptions. 

![Add property to target](../assets/images/style-guide-add-field-to-target.png)

### Then Settings

Use Stoplight's [core functions](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjExNg-core-functions) to set the function that will evaluate your API design content. 

[What's Next: Publish Style Guide](e.publish-style-guide.md)

Commit message:

Added preview wording to all style guide topics (#293)

2a.-style-guides/c-create-rules.md, after:

# Create Rules

<!-- theme: info -->
<!--Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.--> 

> This feature is in preview. Reach out to nauman@stoplight.io for more information.

See our [rule examples](g-rule-examples.md) to get started.

## Add a Rule

To create a rule:

1. Edit a style guide project or a project that has a style guide enabled.
2. In the **Rules** area of the left pane, select the plus icon next to Local to open the **Rules** editor in the right pane.
3. Configure the three main rule areas:
    - [Rule Settings](#Rule-Settings)
    - [Given](#Given-Settings)
    - [Then](#Then-Settings)

### Rule Settings

Set severity, name, message returned in validation, and the description for documenting the rule.

- **Rule severity**
   Options are error, warning, information, and hint. When applied to an API project, the severity levels appear in the **API Design** editor. 
   ![Rule severity icons](../assets/images/rule-severity-indicators.png)
   You can also choose to disable a rule.

- **Name**

   Provide a short descriptive name that contains no spaces. Example: `require-description`.

- **Message**
  
   Provide the message that will appear in the validation results list in the **API Design** editor. Add your own message text or include placeholders that are evaluated at runtime: 

   - `{{error}}`: Returns the function error. 
   - `{{description}}`: Returns the rule's description.
   - `{{path}}`: Returns the full path to the property in the API design document. 
   - `{{property}}`: Returns the last segment of the property path in the API design document.
   - `{{value}}`" Returns the linted value in the API design document. 

- **Description**

  Open the Markdown editor to add helpful information used to document the rule.

### Given Settings

Set the area of the API specification the rule applies to.

- **Target** 

  Select a target to specify the area of an API specification document. Targets are predefined and required for each rule. See [Create Targets](b-create-targets.md).

- **Property**

  Add properties to reference a specific entity in the target. For example, when you target the `$tags[*]` area of the OAS 3.1 specification, enter `description` to enforce rules on tag descriptions. 

![Add property to target](../assets/images/style-guide-add-field-to-target.png)

### Then Settings

Use Stoplight's [core functions](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/ZG9jOjExNg-core-functions) to set the function that will evaluate your API design content. 

[What's Next: Publish Style Guide](e.publish-style-guide.md)
