2a.-style-guides/d-enable-style-guide.md, before:

# Enable a Style Guide

<!-- theme: warning -->
>**Warning**:
>Limited early access content for Shared Style Guides. Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans for early access participants.  

You can enable style guides in any API project. Once you add style guides, you can:

- Disable inherited rules
- Create local targets, custom functions, and rules
- Use inherited targets and custom functions in new rules

To enable a style guide:

1. Edit an API project.
2. Select the **Styles** tab in the left pane.
3. On the Overview pane, select **+ Add/Edit** from the **Enabled Style Guides** page. 
4. In the **Style Guides** dialog box, select one or more style guides, and then select **Save**.
5. In the right pane, provide a description for your style guide.

## Disable Inherited Rules

To disable an inherited rule:

1. Select the rule in the **Inherited Rules** list.
2. In the **Rule** editor, select **Disabled** from the **Severity** list.

![Disable a rule](../assets/images/style-guide-disable-rule.png)

[What's Next: Refresh Style Guide](f.refresh-style-guide.md)

Commit message:

Pam 234 ga style guide updates (#275)
GA Style Guide content

2a.-style-guides/d-enable-style-guide.md, after:

# Enable a Style Guide

<!-- theme: info -->
>Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.  

You can enable the Stoplight Style Guide for any project.

Customers on Professional and Enterprise plans can enable shared style guides in any API project or to another style guide project. This is an easy way to add rules, targets, and functions across style guides. 

Once you add style guides, you can:

- Disable inherited rules.
- Create local targets, custom functions, and rules.
- Use inherited targets and custom functions in new rules.

To enable a style guide:

1. Edit an API project or an existing style guide project.
2. Select the **Styles** tab in the left pane.
3. On the Overview pane, select **Manage Style Guides** from the **Enabled Style Guides** page. 
4. In the **Style Guides** dialog box, select one or more style guides, and then select **Save**.
5. In the right pane, provide a description for your style guide.

[What's Next: Refresh Style Guide](f.refresh-style-guide.md)
