2a.-style-guides/f.refresh-style-guide.md, before:

# Update Style Guides

<!-- theme: warning -->
>**Warning**:
>Limited early access content for Shared Style Guides. Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans for early access participants. 

Style guides are meant to be dynamic documents that change as your organization grows and adopts API governance best practices.

When a style guide that has been enabled for a project changes, you are alerted on the **Overview** page. You can refresh the enabled style guide immediately or wait until a more convenient time.

To update a style guide:

1. Edit an API project that has an enabled style guide.
2. Select the **Styles** tab.
3. Select the **Overview** page. Note the **Update Available** alert for style guides that need to be refreshed in your project.
4. Select **Update Available**. 
5. Review the commit messages so you can decide if you want to take the updates or wait until a later time.

![Refresh Updates](../assets/images/style-guide-refresh.png)

5. Select **Update** to refresh the style guide or **Maybe later** to wait.

Commit message:

Pam 234 ga style guide updates (#275)
GA Style Guide content

2a.-style-guides/f.refresh-style-guide.md, after:

# Update Style Guides

<!-- theme: info -->
>Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.  

Style guides are meant to be dynamic documents that change as your organization grows and adopts API governance best practices.

When a style guide that has been enabled for a project changes, an **Alert** icon appears on the **Styles** tab and on the **Overview** page. 

![style-guide-update-alert.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/RcFkZxwHOj4)

You can update the enabled style guide immediately or wait until a more convenient time.

To update a style guide:

1. Edit an API project that has an enabled style guide.
2. Select the **Styles** tab.
3. Select the **Overview** page. 
4. Select **Update Available**. 
5. Review the commit messages so you can decide if you want to take the updates or wait until a later time.

![Refresh Updates](../assets/images/style-guide-refresh.png)

5. Select **Update** to refresh the style guide or **Maybe later** to wait.
