2a.-style-guides/i.debug-api-content.md, before:

# Debug Rules

<!-- theme: info -->
<!--Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.--> 

> This feature is in preview. Reach out to nauman@stoplight.io for more information. 

Once you create rules, debug them with JSON-formatted API content. This enables you to find and fix rule errors quickly and easily. 

You can:

* Debug rules in projects that have a style guide enabled or for style guide projects themselves.
* Debug an entire JSON file or part of a file.

To debug API content:

1. Edit a style guide project or a project that has a style guide enabled.
2. Select the **Styles** tab.
3. Select a rule from the left side panel.
4. Select **Debug**.

If your JSON violates the selected rule, the rule's message is shown in the **Validation List**. 

![style-guides-debug-json.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/CKdd23fEknc)

If your rule is invalid, you receive this error: "Your Spectral ruleset contains errors." In this case, you need to adjust the rule.

Commit message:

Pam 285 2nd style guide ga branch (#306)
Final updates before GA.

2a.-style-guides/i.debug-api-content.md, after:

# Debug Rules

<!-- theme: info -->
<!--Shared style guides are available on the **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.--> 

> This is a limited access feature. Reach out to nauman@stoplight.io for more information.

Once you create rules, debug them with JSON-formatted API content. This enables you to find and fix rule errors quickly and easily.

You can:

* Debug rules in projects that have a style guide enabled or for style guide projects themselves.
* Debug an entire JSON file or part of a file.

To debug API content:

1. Edit a style guide project or a project that has a style guide enabled.
2. Select the **Styles** tab.
3. Select a rule from the left side panel.
4. Select **Debug**.
5. Add JSON content to the example to validate it.

If your JSON violates the selected rule, the rule's message is shown in the **Validation List**.

![Debug rules](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/iMPoCl0KMDA)

If your rule is invalid, you receive this error: "Your Spectral ruleset contains errors." In this case, you need to adjust the rule.
