2a.-style-guides/rule-examples-api-urls.md, before:

---
stoplight-id: tpdaidmzv03rq
tags: [Style Guides]
---

# Rule Examples: API URLs

As you think about the rules you need, consider the parts that make up API URLs:

* Protocol
* Host
* Path and path parameters
* URL parameters

![API URL Breakdown](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/ivxyCPGgSPI)

## Protocol Rules

### Always Use HTTPS

Use this rule to enforce the HTTPS protocol for all APIs unless they're called in a local environment (localhost). 

#### OAS 3.x

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *always-use-https-oas3*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Servers must use the HTTPS protocol unless using localhost.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`
  - **Function**: *Pattern*
  - **match**: *(http:\/\/localhost)|(https).**

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Always Use HTTPS - OAS 3.x](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/Q4RMnFOWqGs)

During validation, this message is shown for URLs that don't use the HTTPS protocol.

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Always Use HTTPS Validations](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/Pm67X45r2L8)

#### OAS 2

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *always-use-https-oas2*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Servers must use the HTTPS protocol.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas2*
  - **Target**: Add this inline target: `$.schemes.*`
  - **Function**: *enumeration*
  - **values**: `https*`

## Host Rules

### URLs Must Be Lowercase

Typically, URLs are lowercase. Requiring this as a standard helps meet industry best practices. 

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-lowercase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Server URL must be lowercase.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^[^A-Z]*$*`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Lowercase URLs example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/h9EL1S8T2Ck)

During validation, this message is shown for URLs that include uppercase characters.

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Lowercase URLs validation](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/G833bv54E7c)

### Host Name Structure

Different organizations follow different host name structures. The structure you choose doesn't matter as much as using the same structure consistently. This example shows how to create a rule that ensures that all host names use the `{domain}/api` structure.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-has-api*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Server must follow /api convention.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^\/api`

> To use a different convention, such as `api.{domain}.com`, use **notMatch** instead of **match**.

### Base Path Versioning

Similar to host name structure, there are several strategies for versioning APIs. This example shows how to enforce versioning for the base path (example: `api.example.com/v1`).

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-version*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Server must end with a version*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url` 
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^.*\/v[1-9]`

  > Use `version[1-9]` to use `/version1` instead of `/v1`. 
  > 
  >Use **notMatch** if you never want to have a version on the host level.

## Path Rules

### Path Casing

There are several choices for path casing standards: kebab-case, underscore_case, camelCase, and dot.camelCase. Stoplight recommends following kebab-case, but it's most important to choose a standard and then use it consistently.

This example shows the simplest way to enforce kebab-case.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *path-casing*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must be kebab-case.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: `kebab`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Path Casing Example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/tEJpG8Sj8FI)

You can use also the **pattern** functions with these **match** expressions:

* For underscore_case: `^\/([a-z0-9]+(_[a-z0-9]+)*)?(\/[a-z0-9]+(_[a-z0-9]+)*|\/{.+})*$`
* For camelCase: `^/([a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+)?(/[a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+|/{[a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+})*$`

### Plural Resource Names

In general, it's best to use plural nouns for resources. Because there may be exceptions, create this rule as a warning rather than an error.

This example shows how to alert users to plural resource names.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *resource-names-plural*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Resource names should be plural.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^((\/v\d+)*((\/[\w+-]*s)(\/\{.*\})*)*)$`

### Trailing Slashes

`*/users*` and `*/users/*` are separate paths. It's considered bad practice for them to differ based only on a trailing slash. It's usually preferred to not have a trailing slash.

This example shows how to set the standard of no trailing slashes.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-trailing-slash*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not end with a trailing slash.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `\/$`

### Exclude File Extensions

Files extensions are unnecessary in URLs. Create a rule to warn users when they're included.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-file-extensions*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not have file extensions.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `(JSON|json|XML|xml)`

> Add other file extensions to the **notMatch** expression as needed.

### Exclude Verbs in HTTP Methods

Verbs such as "get," "delete," and "put" shouldn't be included in paths because this information is conveyed by the HTTP method.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-http-verbs*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not include HTTP verbs.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `(GET|PUT|POST|DELETE|LIST|CREATE|REMOVE|get|put|post|delete|list|create|remove|Get|Put|Post|Delete|List|Create|Remove)`

> Add other verbs to the **notMatch** expression as needed.

### Path Versioning

This example shows how to ensure that all paths start with version numbers (example: `/v1/users/{userId}/`). 

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-version-number*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must start with a version*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths` 
  - **Property**: *@key*  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^(\/v[1-9]|\/version[1-9])`

### Avoid Special Characters

Ideally, API URLs contain only ASCII characters. This rule warns users when special characters, such as `%20`, are used in paths.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-avoid-special-characters*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Avoid using special characters in paths.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `^(.*)([\$&+,;=?@%]+)(.*)$`

## URL Parameter Rules

### No Query Parameters in URLs

Use this rule to alert users when query parameters are used in paths rather than defined separately in the specification.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-query-params*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths shouldn't have query parameters in them. They should be defined separately in the OpenAPI.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `\?`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![No Query Parameters Example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/dQ6eRUaZ7l0)

### Path Parameter Casing

There are several options for path parameter casing. Use this example to ensure path parameters are in camelCase and don't contain digits.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *path-parameters-camelcase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Path parameters should be camelCase and not contain digits.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Request > Parameter > Query* or add this inline target: `$..parameters[?(@.in == 'path')]`
  - **Property**: *name*   
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: *camel*
  - ** disallowDigits**: *true*

### Query Parameter Casing

This rule enforces underscore for query parameters. (Typically, you should use the same conventions for query and path parameters.)

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *query-parameters-camelcase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Query parameters should be camelCase and not contain digits.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Request > Parameter > Query* or add this inline target: `$..parameters[?(@.in == 'query')]`
  _ **Property**: *name*
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: *camel*
  - ** disallowDigits**: *true*

### No Path Parameters at Operation Level

This rule ensures that path parameters are defined at the path level instead of the operation level.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *path-parameters-on-path-only*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Path parameters should be defined on the path level instead of the operation level.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: Add this inline target: `$.paths[*][*].parameters[?(@.in == 'path')]`
  - **Function**: *falsy*

Commit message:

Pam 423 validation list change (#488)
* Updated for design checker

2a.-style-guides/rule-examples-api-urls.md, after:

---
stoplight-id: tpdaidmzv03rq
tags: [Style Guides]
---

# Rule Examples: API URLs

As you think about the rules you need, consider the parts that make up API URLs:

* Protocol
* Host
* Path and path parameters
* URL parameters

![API URL Breakdown](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/ivxyCPGgSPI)

## Protocol Rules

### Always Use HTTPS

Use this rule to enforce the HTTPS protocol for all APIs unless they're called in a local environment (localhost). 

#### OAS 3.x

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *always-use-https-oas3*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Servers must use the HTTPS protocol unless using localhost.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`
  - **Function**: *Pattern*
  - **match**: *(http:\/\/localhost)|(https).**

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Always Use HTTPS - OAS 3.x](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/Q4RMnFOWqGs)

During validation, this message is shown for URLs that don't use the HTTPS protocol.

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Always Use HTTPS Validations](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/Pm67X45r2L8)

#### OAS 2

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *always-use-https-oas2*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Servers must use the HTTPS protocol.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas2*
  - **Target**: Add this inline target: `$.schemes.*`
  - **Function**: *enumeration*
  - **values**: `https*`

## Host Rules

### URLs Must Be Lowercase

Typically, URLs are lowercase. Requiring this as a standard helps meet industry best practices. 

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-lowercase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Server URL must be lowercase.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^[^A-Z]*$*`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Lowercase URLs example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/h9EL1S8T2Ck)

During validation, this message is shown for URLs that include uppercase characters.

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Lowercase URLs validation](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/G833bv54E7c)

### Host Name Structure

Different organizations follow different host name structures. The structure you choose doesn't matter as much as using the same structure consistently. This example shows how to create a rule that ensures that all host names use the `{domain}/api` structure.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-has-api*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Server must follow /api convention.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url`  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^\/api`

> To use a different convention, such as `api.{domain}.com`, use **notMatch** instead of **match**.

### Base Path Versioning

Similar to host name structure, there are several strategies for versioning APIs. This example shows how to enforce versioning for the base path (example: `api.example.com/v1`).

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *server-version*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Server must end with a version*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *API > Server> URL* or add this inline target: `$.servers[*].url` 
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^.*\/v[1-9]`

  > Use `version[1-9]` to use `/version1` instead of `/v1`. 
  > 
  >Use **notMatch** if you never want to have a version on the host level.

## Path Rules

### Path Casing

There are several choices for path casing standards: kebab-case, underscore_case, camelCase, and dot.camelCase. Stoplight recommends following kebab-case, but it's most important to choose a standard and then use it consistently.

This example shows the simplest way to enforce kebab-case.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *path-casing*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must be kebab-case.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: `kebab`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![Path Casing Example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/tEJpG8Sj8FI)

You can use also the **pattern** functions with these **match** expressions:

* For underscore_case: `^\/([a-z0-9]+(_[a-z0-9]+)*)?(\/[a-z0-9]+(_[a-z0-9]+)*|\/{.+})*$`
* For camelCase: `^/([a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+)?(/[a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+|/{[a-z][a-zA-Z0-9]+})*$`

### Plural Resource Names

In general, it's best to use plural nouns for resources. Because there may be exceptions, create this rule as a warning rather than an error.

This example shows how to alert users to plural resource names.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *resource-names-plural*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Resource names should be plural.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^((\/v\d+)*((\/[\w+-]*s)(\/\{.*\})*)*)$`

### Trailing Slashes

`*/users*` and `*/users/*` are separate paths. It's considered bad practice for them to differ based only on a trailing slash. It's usually preferred to not have a trailing slash.

This example shows how to set the standard of no trailing slashes.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-trailing-slash*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not end with a trailing slash.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `\/$`

### Exclude File Extensions

Files extensions are unnecessary in URLs. Create a rule to warn users when they're included.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-file-extensions*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not have file extensions.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `(JSON|json|XML|xml)`

> Add other file extensions to the **notMatch** expression as needed.

### Exclude Verbs in HTTP Methods

Verbs such as "get," "delete," and "put" shouldn't be included in paths because this information is conveyed by the HTTP method.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-http-verbs*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must not include HTTP verbs.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `(GET|PUT|POST|DELETE|LIST|CREATE|REMOVE|get|put|post|delete|list|create|remove|Get|Put|Post|Delete|List|Create|Remove)`

> Add other verbs to the **notMatch** expression as needed.

### Path Versioning

This example shows how to ensure that all paths start with version numbers (example: `/v1/users/{userId}/`). 

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *paths-version-number*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths must start with a version*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths` 
  - **Property**: *@key*  
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **match**: `^(\/v[1-9]|\/version[1-9])`

### Avoid Special Characters

Ideally, API URLs contain only ASCII characters. This rule warns users when special characters, such as `%20`, are used in paths.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-avoid-special-characters*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the validation list.) 
  - **Description**: *Avoid using special characters in paths.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `^(.*)([\$&+,;=?@%]+)(.*)$`

## URL Parameter Rules

### No Query Parameters in URLs

Use this rule to alert users when query parameters are used in paths rather than defined separately in the specification.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *paths-no-query-params*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Paths shouldn't have query parameters in them. They should be defined separately in the OpenAPI.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Path > Object* or add this inline target: `$.paths`
  - **Property**: *@key*   
  - **Function**: *pattern*
  - **notMatch**: `\?`

<!--
focus: center
bg: "#1A202C"
-->
![No Query Parameters Example](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/dQ6eRUaZ7l0)

### Path Parameter Casing

There are several options for path parameter casing. Use this example to ensure path parameters are in camelCase and don't contain digits.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *path-parameters-camelcase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Path parameters should be camelCase and not contain digits.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Request > Parameter > Query* or add this inline target: `$..parameters[?(@.in == 'path')]`
  - **Property**: *name*   
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: *camel*
  - ** disallowDigits**: *true*

### Query Parameter Casing

This rule enforces underscore for query parameters. (Typically, you should use the same conventions for query and path parameters.)

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Error* 
  - **Name**: *query-parameters-camelcase*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Query parameters should be camelCase and not contain digits.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: With the Stoplight Style Guide enabled, select *Request > Parameter > Query* or add this inline target: `$..parameters[?(@.in == 'query')]`
  _ **Property**: *name*
  - **Function**: *casing*
  - **type**: *camel*
  - ** disallowDigits**: *true*

### No Path Parameters at Operation Level

This rule ensures that path parameters are defined at the path level instead of the operation level.

Rule settings:

  - **Severity**: *Warning* 
  - **Name**: *path-parameters-on-path-only*
  - **Message**:  *{{description}}* (This returns your provided description in the **API Design Checker**.) 
  - **Description**: *Path parameters should be defined on the path level instead of the operation level.*
  - **Format** (Optional): *oas3.x* and *oas2*
  - **Target**: Add this inline target: `$.paths[*][*].parameters[?(@.in == 'path')]`
  - **Function**: *falsy*
