2.-workspaces/allowed-email-domains.md, before:

# Allowed Email Domains

Domains are how we identify things on the internet. For example, we can see domains in website URLs https://stoplight.io and email addresses support@stoplight.io.

Allowed email domains let Stoplight know who should have automatic access to your Workspace and who needs membership approval.

> This feature is available on the [Stoplight **Starter** plan](https://stoplight.io/pricing/), and above.

## Overview

You can configure one or more allowed email domains by navigating to your Workspace settings.

![Allowed Email Domains](../assets/images/allowed-email-domains.png)

After clicking the "Add" button, you will see a dialog where you can input an email domain and choose the role for users who join with that matching domain.

![Allowed Email Domain Configuration](../assets/images/allowed-email-domain-configure.png)

Now that you've configured your company's email domain, you can send your Workspace URL to teammates and they will be automatically added to your Workspace. 

## How it works

When someone tries to join your Workspace, Stoplight will first have them confirm their email address. 

If their email address matches one of your Workspace's allowed email domains, Stoplight will add them as a member to your Workspace with the role configured with the allowed domain.

If their email address **does not match** one of your Workspace's allowed email domains, a pending "join request" will be created and an approval from a Workspace Owner or Admin will be required.

Commit message:

Pam 195 platform cleanup (#207)
Clean up for project config, adding images, and allowed email domains.

2.-workspaces/allowed-email-domains.md, after:

# Approved Email Domains

Domains are how we identify things on the internet. For example, we can see domains in website URLs https://stoplight.io and email addresses support@stoplight.io.

Approved email domains let Stoplight know who should have automatic access to your workspace and who needs membership approval. You can configure one or more approved email domains.

> This feature is available on the [**Starter** plan](https://stoplight.io/pricing/) and above.

## Overview

![Approved Email Domains](../assets/images/allowed-email-domains.png)

To approve email domains:

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page. 
2. Select **Add** to the right of **Approved Domains**.
3. On the page that opens, add your email domain, and then choose the role for users who join with that matching domain.

![Approved Email Domain Configuration](../assets/images/allowed-email-domain-configure.png)

Now that you've configured your company's email domain, you can send your workspace URL to teammates and they will be automatically added to your workspace. 

## How it works

When someone tries to join your Workspace, Stoplight will first have them confirm their email address. 

If their email address matches one of your workspace's approved email domains, they are added as a workspace member with the role configured with the approved domain.

If their email address **does not match** one of your workspace's approved email domains, a pending "join request" is created and an approval from a workspace owner or admin is required.
