2.-workspaces/k.workspace-roles.md, before:

# Workspace Roles

Stoplight is an all-in-one platform that covers all integral parts of the API lifecycle including design, documentation, development, and governance.

This requires different stakeholders from your organization to be on the platform, and you can invite them as **members** on your workspace.

Having all your collaborators on a single platform helps promote **visibility** and **reusability** of artifacts across your organization, but you may not want these stakeholders to have the same level of access. You can easily limit that by defining their **workspace and project roles.**

> To find out how to invite members to your workspace and assign roles, read our guide [**Inviting Team Members**](d.inviting-your-team.md)

Workspace roles on Stoplight are predefined according to varying access needs. You can assign these roles whenever you invite a new member to your workspace. These roles include: 

![Workspace Roles](../assets/images/workspace-roles.png)

**Guests**: can view documentation for projects that they are granted explicit access to. Guests are folks outside your company or organization, such as partners who require authenticated access to the documentation.

**Viewer**: can view documentation and consume mock servers. Viewers are usually developers and other stakeholders inside the organization consuming the API but don't need to make changes to API design and docs. Viewers can view **published branches** of all internal projects and **all branches** of projects they are granted direct access to. [Learn how to add members to a project](l.project-roles.md)

**Maker**: in addition to viewer access, can create projects, edit all internal Git projects and projects they are granted direct access to. Makers are usually product managers, technical writers and architects creating/editing API designs and docs.

**Owners, Admins and Billing**: in addition to maker access can manage team members, billing and make changes to the workspace like landing page content and themes.


## What's Next?

Since you now have a fair idea of how workspace roles work in Stoplight, start by: 

1. [**Inviting Team Members**](d.inviting-your-team.md)
2. [**Manage Project Access**](l.project-roles.md)

Commit message:

Docs/pam 136 bulk actions (#144)
* Fixed broken links

* Updated screenshots and text for bulk images

* More screenshot updates for project roles

* More screenshot updates

* Removed Cloudflare link to resolve 403 error.

2.-workspaces/k.workspace-roles.md, after:

# Workspace Roles

Stoplight is an all-in-one platform that covers all integral parts of the API lifecycle including design, documentation, development, and governance.

This requires different stakeholders from your organization to be on the platform, and you can invite them as **members** on your workspace.

Having all your collaborators on a single platform helps promote **visibility** and **reusability** of artifacts across your organization, but you may not want these stakeholders to have the same level of access. You can easily limit that by defining their **workspace and project roles.**

> To find out how to invite members to your workspace and assign roles, see [**Inviting Team Members**](d.inviting-your-team.md).

Workspace roles on Stoplight are predefined according to varying access needs. You can assign these roles to one or more members once they've been invited to your workspace. Roles include: 

![Workspace Roles](../assets/images/workspace-roles.png)

**Guests**: can view documentation for projects that they are granted explicit access to. Guests are folks outside your company or organization, such as partners who require authenticated access to the documentation.

**Viewer**: can view documentation and consume mock servers. Viewers are usually developers and other stakeholders inside the organization consuming the API but don't need to make changes to API design and docs. Viewers can view **published branches** of all internal projects and **all branches** of projects they are granted direct access to. [Learn how to add members to a project](l.project-roles.md)

**Maker**: in addition to viewer access, can create projects, edit all internal Git projects and projects they are granted direct access to. Makers are usually product managers, technical writers and architects creating/editing API designs and docs.

**Owners, Admins and Billing**: in addition to maker access can manage team members, billing and make changes to the workspace like landing page content and themes.


## What's Next?

Since you now have a fair idea of how workspace roles work in Stoplight, start by: 

1. [**Inviting Team Members**](d.inviting-your-team.md)
2. [**Manage Project Access**](l.project-roles.md)
