2.-workspaces/m.groups.md, before:

# Groups

Groups allow you to organize projects in your sidebar and grant project access to users in bulk.

<!-- theme: info -->
> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.

## Creating Groups

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5e5Ac-6_U4

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Groups** tab.
2. Select the **New Group** icon at the right of the header pane.
3. From the **Create New Group** page, provide a name for your group and set the [project visibility](l.project-roles.md).
4. Select **Save** to create your group.

## Project Organization

Joining groups and their projects populates your sidebar. Making public groups with public projects adds the same helpful nested structure to your external docs too.

<!-- theme: success -->
> Discover [how to populate your sidebar](../4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.customize-sidebar.md) and pin your favorite projects.

<!-- focus: center -->
![amazin_stop_small.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/9sSyrT8ZVYM)

## Moving Projects
There are a couple ways to move projects into a group.

**Option 1: Move a Single Project to a Group from the Projects List**

![project_list_move_project.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/za5fPvBFhDg)

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Projects** tab. 
2. Select the **ellipsis** icon (...) at the right of the project you wish to move. 
3. Select **Move Project**.

**Option 2: Move Multiple Projects to a Group from the Projects List**

![project_settings.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/0Lt57dlIpDc)

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Projects** tab.
2. Select the **checkbox** icon at the left of the **Name** filter.
3. From the **Move** page, select a group from the menu to move selected projects.
4. Select **Move**.

Commit message:

Pam 211 platform cleanup (#226)
* Replaced fuzzy screenshots, added Try It errors to the FAQ; light editing; screenshots; clarified owners can move projects

2.-workspaces/m.groups.md, after:

# Groups

Groups allow you to organize projects in your sidebar and grant project access to users in bulk.

<!-- theme: info -->
> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Professional** and **Enterprise** plans.

## Creating Groups

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5e5Ac-6_U4

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Groups** tab.
2. Select the **New Group** icon at the right of the header pane.
3. From the **Create New Group** page, provide a name for your group and set the [project visibility](l.project-roles.md).
4. Select **Save** to create your group.

## Project Organization

Joining groups and their projects populates your sidebar. Making public groups with public projects adds the same helpful nested structure to your external docs too.

<!-- theme: success -->
> Discover [how to populate your sidebar](../4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.customize-sidebar.md) and pin your favorite projects.

<!-- focus: center -->
![amazin_stop_small.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/9sSyrT8ZVYM)

## Moving Projects

Project owners can move projects in and out of groups they own. Workspace owners can also move projects in and out of groups.

**Option 1: Move a Single Project to a Group from the Projects List**

![project_list_move_project.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/za5fPvBFhDg)

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Projects** tab. 
2. Select the **ellipsis** icon (...) at the right of the project you wish to move. 
3. Select **Move Project**.

**Option 2: Move Multiple Projects to a Group from the Projects List**

![project_settings.png](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/0Lt57dlIpDc)

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the **Projects** tab.
2. Select the **checkbox** icon at the left of the **Name** filter.
3. From the **Move** page, select a group from the menu to move selected projects.
4. Select **Move**.
