2.-workspaces/q-account-settings.md, before:

# User Account Settings

Use the **Account Settings** page to update your user settings across all workspaces. Email digest settings and Connected Accounts apply only to the current workspace, however. 

To modify account settings:

1. Select the arrow next to your email address or username at the bottom of the left sidebar.
2. Select **Account Settings**.
3. Change settings on these three tabs as needed:
   - Basics
   - Security
   - Connected Accounts

## Account Basics

- **Username**: Enter a single-word username that contains letters, numbers, and hyphens. Your username is shown at the top of your account settings and at the bottom of the left sidebar. If you don't provide a username, your email address is shown in these locations.
- **Avatar URL**: Provide the URL to an avatar of your choice or select **Use Gravatar Image** to use a default avatar. The ideal size is 200x200 pixels. Make sure the URL is accessible to Stoplight.
- **First Name** and **Last Name**: Your first and last name are used as your primary display name throughout Stoplight. 

## Emails
- **Emails**: Your primary email is the one used when you created or joined your workspace. You can add a secondary email. This is useful for switching your primary email address if needed. Note that the primary email is used by your source control provider to register commits in Stoplight. 

## Notifications
- **Daily Summary Email**: Subscribe to receive a list of changes to the current workspace in your primary email each day at 8 AM in your local time zone. Emails are only sent when changes are made. 

  You can see changes for the projects you have [pinned to your workspace sidebar](../4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.workspace-sidebar.md). Changes to APIs, models, endpoints, and articles are included in the digest.

  Disable the digest to stop receiving daily updates.

## Security

Use the **Security** tab to update your account password.

## Connected Accounts

Use this tab to connect or disconnect your account for integrations that you or an administrator has configured for your workspace. Examples include GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket Cloud.

Commit message:

Workspace settings for disabling daily digest for guests (#571)

2.-workspaces/q-account-settings.md, after:

# User Account Settings

Use the **Account Settings** page to update your user settings across all workspaces. Email digest settings and Connected Accounts apply only to the current workspace, however. 

To modify account settings:

1. Select the arrow next to your email address or username at the bottom of the left sidebar.
2. Select **Account Settings**.
3. Change settings on these three tabs as needed:
   - Basics
   - Security
   - Connected Accounts

## Account Basics

- **Username**: Enter a single-word username that contains letters, numbers, and hyphens. Your username is shown at the top of your account settings and at the bottom of the left sidebar. If you don't provide a username, your email address is shown in these locations.
- **Avatar URL**: Provide the URL to an avatar of your choice or select **Use Gravatar Image** to use a default avatar. The ideal size is 200x200 pixels. Make sure the URL is accessible to Stoplight.
- **First Name** and **Last Name**: Your first and last name are used as your primary display name throughout Stoplight. 

## Emails

Your primary email is the one used when you created or joined your workspace. You can add a secondary email. This is useful for switching your primary email address if needed. Note that the primary email is used by your source control provider to register commits in Stoplight. 

## Notifications

### Stoplight Daily Digest

Subscribe to receive a list of changes to the current workspace in your primary email each day at 8 AM in your local time zone. Emails are only sent when changes are made. 

You can see changes for the projects you have [pinned to your workspace sidebar](../4.-documentation/Sidebar/a.workspace-sidebar.md). Changes to APIs, models, endpoints, and articles are included in the digest.

You can disable the digest to stop receiving daily updates for your workspace.

Workspace admins and owners can disable daily digest emails to be sent to users with the guest workspace role. See [Workspace Settings](./workspace-settings.md#send-daily-digest-to-guests) for details.

## Security

Use the **Security** tab to update your account password.

## Connected Accounts

Use this tab to connect or disconnect your account for integrations that you or an administrator has configured for your workspace. Examples include GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket Cloud.
