2.-workspaces/configure-git/b.bitbucket-cloud.md, before:

# Bitbucket Cloud

Use these steps to configure your Bitbucket Cloud integration if you have a self-hosted deployment or need custom integration settings.

## Bitbucket Cloud Setup

1. From your profile avatar in the bottom left, select the workspace in the **Recent Workspaces** list or select **All workspaces** to open an entire list.
2. Select **Settings** on the left sidebar to open the Workspace settings.
3. Select **OAuth consumers** under Apps and features on the left navigation, and then select **Add consumer**.
4. Add the following information:
    * **Name**: Give the consumer a name (e.g. **Stoplight Integration**).
    * **Callback URL**: Set as `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`.
    * **Mininum Permissions**: The miminum required  permissions for the consumer are:
       * Account - Read
       * Repositories - Admin
       * Repositories - Write
       * Pull requests - Read
       * Webhooks - Read and Write
5. Select **Save**.

![Bitbucket Cloud Settings](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/xsUjXg0wGno)

Read more about [creating a BitBucket OAuth consumer](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/integrate-another-application-through-oauth/).

## Stoplight Setup

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page, then navigate to the **Integrations** section.
2. Select **Add** for Bitbucket Cloud.
3. Select **Customize integration settings**.
4. Add the following information:
   - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of Bitbucket Cloud is hosted.
   - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of Bitbucket Cloud. This is usually `api.{HostURL}/2.0`.
   - **Client ID**: You can find this as ***Key*** under the OAuth consumers settings for the newly created consumer.
   - **Client Secret**: You can find this as ***Secret*** under the OAuth consumers' settings for the newly created consumer.
5. Test your settings.
6. Select **Save**.

If successful, [add projects](../../7.-projects/adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your Bitbucket Cloud instance.

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshoot Git](f-troubleshoot-git.md) for guidance on resolving connection issues.

Commit message:

Update Git integration docs (#354)
* Add separate doc for GitHub integration

* Update Stoplight setup instruction on GitHub doc

* Fix capitalization

* Update Git integration docs to include cloud and self-hosted instructions

* Modified 17 files

* Revert "Modified 17 files"

This reverts commit 4f89fc85df45a4f0cae8fb3555458f3a97edac8f.

* Remove self-hosted info from bitbucket cloud doc

* Missed one spot for bitbucket cloud

* Pam feedback

2.-workspaces/configure-git/b.bitbucket-cloud.md, after:

# Bitbucket Cloud

Bitbucket Cloud is supported out of the box in Stoplight. To enable your workspace Bitbucket Cloud integration:

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page.
2. From the **Integrations** section, select **Add** next to Bitbucket Cloud.
3. Select **Use Default Configuration,** and then select **Save**.

In the setup dialog you can also:

- Enable/disable the integration
- Allow users to sign in and sign up by using Bitbucket Cloud

## Custom Configuration

> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Pro** plan and above.

By default, the Bitbucket Cloud integration will use Stoplight's OAuth application, but you can also customize your Bitbucket integration to use your own OAuth app.

### Bitbucket Cloud Setup

1. From your profile avatar in the bottom left, select the workspace in the **Recent Workspaces** list or select **All workspaces** to open an entire list.
2. Select **Settings** on the left sidebar to open the Workspace settings.
3. Select **OAuth consumers** under Apps and features on the left navigation, and then select **Add consumer**.
4. Add the following information:
    * **Name**: Give the consumer a name (e.g. **Stoplight Integration**).
    * **Callback URL**: Set as `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`.
    * **Mininum Permissions**: The miminum required  permissions for the consumer are:
       * Account - Read
       * Repositories - Admin
       * Repositories - Write
       * Pull requests - Read
       * Webhooks - Read and Write
5. Select **Save**.

![Bitbucket Cloud Settings](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/xsUjXg0wGno)

Read more about [creating a BitBucket OAuth consumer](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/integrate-another-application-through-oauth/).

### Stoplight Setup

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page, then navigate to the **Integrations** section.
2. Select **Add** for Bitbucket Cloud.
3. Select **Customize integration settings**.
4. Add the following information:
   - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of Bitbucket Cloud is hosted.
   - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of Bitbucket Cloud. This is usually `api.{HostURL}/2.0`.
   - **Client ID**: You can find this as ***Key*** under the OAuth consumers settings for the newly created consumer.
   - **Client Secret**: You can find this as ***Secret*** under the OAuth consumers' settings for the newly created consumer.
5. Test your settings.
6. Select **Save**.

If successful, [add projects](../../7.-projects/adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your Bitbucket Cloud instance.

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshoot Git](f-troubleshoot-git.md) for guidance on resolving connection issues.
