2.-workspaces/configure-git/d.github-enterprise.md, before:

# GitHub Enterprise

> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Pro** plan and above.

Use these steps to configure your GitHub Enterprise integration if you have a self-hosted deployment or need custom integration settings.

## GitHub Setup

1. In the upper-right corner of any page, select your profile photo, then select **Settings**.
2. In the left sidebar, select **Developer settings**.
3. Select  **OAuth Apps**.
4. Select **New OAuth App**.
> If you haven't created an app before, this button is labeled  **Register a new application**.
5. Add the following information:
   * **Application name**: Add the name of your app (e.g `Stoplight Integration`).
   * **Homepage URL**: Add the full URL to your app's website (e.g.: `https://stoplight.io`).
   * **Authorization callback URL**: Set as `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`.
6. Select **Register application**.

Read more about [creating a GitHub OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/).

## Stoplight Setup

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page, then navigate to the **Integrations** section.
2. Select **Add** for GitHub.
3. Select **Customize integration settings**.
4. Add the following information:
   - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of GitHub Enterprise is hosted.
   - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of GitHub Enterprise. This is usually: api.{HostURL}.
   - **Client ID**: You can find this as `Client ID` under the OAuth Apps settings for the newly created app.
   - **Client Secret**: You can find this as `Client Secret` under the OAuth consumers settings for the newly created app.
   - **Redirect URL**: Copy this URL and add it to your GitLab OAuth application.
5. Test your settings.
6. Select **Save**.

If successful, [add projects](../../7.-projects/adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your GitHub Enterprise instance.

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshoot Git](f-troubleshoot-git.md) for guidance on resolving connection issues.

Commit message:

Add separate doc for GitHub integration (#353)
* Add separate doc for GitHub integration

* Update Stoplight setup instruction on GitHub doc

* Fix capitalization

* Make authorization callback URL instructions more generic to account for on-prem users

* Small tweak

2.-workspaces/configure-git/d.github-enterprise.md, after:

# GitHub Enterprise

> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Pro** plan and above.

Use these steps to configure your GitHub Enterprise integration if you have a self-hosted deployment or need custom integration settings.

## GitHub Setup

1. In the upper-right corner of any page, select your profile photo, then select **Settings**.
2. In the left sidebar, select **Developer settings**.
3. Select  **OAuth Apps**.
4. Select **New OAuth App**.
> If you haven't created an app before, this button is labeled  **Register a new application**.
5. Add the following information:
   * **Application name**: Add the name of your app (e.g `Stoplight Integration`).
   * **Homepage URL**: Add the full URL to your app's website (e.g.: `https://stoplight.io`).
   * **Authorization callback URL**: Set as `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`.
6. Select **Register application**.
7. Select **Generate a new client secret**.

Read more about [creating a GitHub OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/).

## Stoplight Setup

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page, then navigate to the **Integrations** section.
2. Select **Add** for GitHub.
3. Select **Customize integration settings**.
4. Add the following information:
   - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of GitHub Enterprise is hosted.
   - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of GitHub Enterprise. This is usually: `https://api.{HostURL}`.
   - **Client ID**: You can find this as `Client ID` under the OAuth Apps settings for the newly created app.
   - **Client Secret**: You can find this as `Client Secret` under the OAuth consumers settings for the newly created app.
   - **Redirect URL**: This URL should match the URL you used in the **Authorization callback URL** in your GitHub OAuth app settings.
5. Test your settings.
6. Select **Save**.

If successful, [add projects](../../7.-projects/adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your GitHub Enterprise instance.

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshoot Git](f-troubleshoot-git.md) for guidance on resolving connection issues.
