2.-workspaces/configure-git/e.gitlab.md, before:

# GitLab

> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Pro** plan, and above

Configure your GitLab integration by following the instructions below:

**GitLab**

1. To add a new application via your profile, navigate to **Profile Settings > Applications** and select **New Application**.
2. In the application form, enter a Name e.g `Stoplight Integration`, and set the Redirect URI as: `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`. Click **Submit**.

**Stoplight Workspace**

3. Navigate to the Integrations section in your Stoplight workspace settings. 
4. Click **Install/Configure** beside GitLab. Select **Customize integration settings**. 
5. Add the following information:
 - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of GitLab is hosted.
 - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of GitLab. This is usually: `{HostURL}/api/v4`
 - **Client ID:** You can find this as `Application ID` under the application settings for the newly created app. 
 - **Client Secret**: You can find this as `Secret` under the application settings for the newly created app. 
6. Click **Install**. 

If successful, [add projects](../b.adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your GitLab instance.

If you receive an error verify the following and try again:

- Client ID and Client Secret are correct
- Host and API URL is correct

Read more about [creating a GitLab OAuth App](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html#adding-an-application-through-the-profile).

If connected behind a firewall verify the following:

Stoplight's IP addresses are added to your [allowlist](../../c.troubleshooting.md#how-do-i-allow-stoplight-to-access-an-internal-git-provider) on port 443.

Commit message:

Pam 220 scopes for oauth apps (#240)
 Editing on github/gitlab setup; added scopes; added troubleshooting

2.-workspaces/configure-git/e.gitlab.md, after:

# GitLab

> This feature is available on the Stoplight **Pro** plan and above.

Configure your GitLab integration by following these instructions.

## GitLab Setup

1. Verify that [HTTP/HTTPS access is enabled](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/visibility_and_access_controls.html#configure-enabled-git-access-protocols) in Gitlab.
2. Navigate to **Profile Settings > Edit Profile> Applications** to add a new application via your profile.
3. Add the following information on the **New Application** form:
   * **Name**: Enter a Name (e.g `Stoplight Integration`).
   * **Redirect URI**: Set as `https://stoplight.io/oauth/callback`.
   * **Expire access token**: Clear this checkbox.
   * **Scopes**: Select `api`.
4. Select **Save application**.

![GitLab Setup](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/vAVNMM9zwOg)

Read more about [creating a GitLab OAuth App](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/integration/oauth_provider.html#adding-an-application-through-the-profile).

## Stoplight Setup

1. Select **Settings** from the workspace home page, then navigate to the **Integrations** section.
2. Select **Add** for GitLab.
3. Select **Customize integration settings**, and then add the following information:
   - **Host URL**: This is the URL where your instance of GitLab is hosted.
   - **API URL**: This is the URL of the API of your instance of GitLab. This is usually: `{HostURL}/api/v4`
   - **Client ID:** This ss `Application ID` under the application settings for the app you created in GitLab.
   - **Client Secret**: You can find this as `Secret` under the application settings for the newly created app.
4. Test your settings.
5. Select **Save**.

![Stoplight GitLab Settings](https://stoplight.io/api/v1/projects/cHJqOjI/images/plEmHRzDhWM)

If successful, [add projects](../b.adding-projects.md) to start working with projects from your GitLab instance.

## Troubleshooting

See [Troubleshoot Git](f-troubleshoot-git.md) for guidance on resolving connection issues.
