5.-governance/e.style-guide-projects.md, before:

---
tags: [Governance]
---

# Style Guides
## Overview

Style guides add consistency, reusability, and easy governance throughout your API program. Tailor the experience for creating style guides with a dedicated project type managed by workspace owners or administrators. Build custom rules, custom functions, errors, and validations. Share enforceable style guides across projects, business units, or workspace groups.

Style Guides add value to your API program:
* Produce higher quality API design.
* Pass quality and security reviews.
* Get APIs to market faster and better.


### Publishing Style Guides

Each published style guide generates documentation for errors and responses. Easily socialize the style guide within the company.

Use Continuous integration (CI) pipelines, such as Spectral-cli and Spectral action, to enforce style guides for different Git repositories.


### Consuming Style Guides

Add style guides to your Studio design from a list of shared style guides. Provide more flexibility and control of your API design workflow by overriding rules in your project and skipping style guides for certain APIs, endpoints, or models. When a style guide is updated, you receive a notification to ensure you're always using the latest version of the organization's style guide.


### API Design Workflow

**Governance:** Makes governance easier and accessible.   
**Design:** Use a style guide as an integrated, easy part of the design process.   
**Development:** Develop faster and better with approved designs that pass compliance checks.


## Creating a Style Guide


### Within a New Project

1. At the top right of the **Stoplight Documentation** menu, click **+** to access Stoplight Studio. 
2. From the **Select Project Type** page, select **Style Guide** and click **Continue**.
3. From the **Create a Style Guide** page, enter a title and click **Create Style Guide**.


### Within an Existing Project

**Note:** The Stoplight Studio ribbon shows **Design**, **Docs**, and **Style Guide**.
1. From the **Overview** panel, **Enabled Style Guides** lists your existing style guides. Select **+Add/Edit**.
2. In the **Style Guides** dialog box, select your desired style guide. Click **Save**.
3. In the **Description** dialog box, create your **Style Guide** description. Click **Save**.
4. From the **Enabled Style Guides** page, click **+Add** to enable rulesets to your project.

Commit message:

Added early access banner; light editing (#197)

5.-governance/e.style-guide-projects.md, after:

---
tags: [Governance]
---

# Style Guide Projects

> Early access content for Shared Style Guides. 

## Overview

Style guides add consistency, reusability, and easy governance throughout your API program. Tailor the experience for creating style guides with a dedicated project type managed by workspace owners or administrators. Build custom rules, custom functions, errors, and validations. Share enforceable style guides across projects, business units, or workspace groups.

Style Guides add value to your API program:
* Produce higher quality API design.
* Pass quality and security reviews.
* Get APIs to market faster and better.

### Publish Style Guides

Each published style guide generates documentation for errors and responses. Easily socialize the style guide within the company.

Use Continuous integration (CI) pipelines, such as Spectral-cli and Spectral action, to enforce style guides for different Git repositories.

### Consume Style Guides

Add style guides to your Studio design from a list of shared style guides. Provide more flexibility and control of your API design workflow by overriding rules in your project and skipping style guides for certain APIs, endpoints, or models. When a style guide is updated, you receive a notification to ensure you're always using the latest version of the organization's style guide.

### API Design Workflow

**Governance:** Makes governance easier and accessible.   
**Design:** Use a style guide as an integrated, easy part of the design process.   
**Development:** Develop faster and better with approved designs that pass compliance checks.

## Create a Style Guide

### For a New Project

1. Log in to your workspace, and then select the Add icon (+) at the top of the left pane.
2. From the **Select Project Type** page, select **Style Guide**, and then select **Continue**.
3. From the **Create a Style Guide** page, enter a title, and then select **Create Style Guide**.

### For an Existing Project

>**Note** 
>
>The Stoplight Studio ribbon shows **APIs**, **Docs**, and **Styles**.

1. From the **Overview** panel, **Enabled Style Guides** lists your existing style guides. Select **+Add/Edit**.
2. In the **Style Guides** dialog box, select a style guide. Select **Save**.
3. In the **Description** dialog box, create your **Style Guide** description. Select **Save**.
4. From the **Enabled Style Guides** page, select **+Add** to enable style guides to your project.
