3.-design/d.setting-up-a-mock-server.md, before:

---
tags: [Design]
---

# Working with Mock Servers

Stoplight offers free, automatically updated HTTP mock servers for every API published in your workspace. These mock servers simulate real APIs by providing endpoints and validation rules described in your API documentation. 

This allows client developers to begin writing code for frontend services like web, mobile, or other backend applications while API developers are writing their code. This can help find and solve problems early on, before the API is built.

Stoplight mock servers are powered by our open-source mock server, [Prism](https://stoplight.io/open-source/prism). 

   <!-- theme: info -->

> #### Learn more about Prism
>
>- [Response Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#response-examples)
>- [Static Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#static-response-generation)
>- [Dynamic Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#dynamic-response-generation) 
>- [Request Validation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk2-request-validation)
>- [Help with Errors](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjE2MDY1NjY5-errors)

Use mock servers for any OpenAPI file:

- From the documentation for any endpoint in Studio Web.
-  From your own HTTP client or front-end applications. (First, import the Git project into a Stoplight project. Push your changes to Git, and then follow instructions for using hosted mock servers.)
- From any endpoint in Studio Desktop.

Mock servers can be used for all branches for projects that are up to date with the latest version of API specifications. 

## Studio Web

Use Studio Web to get sample data and a hosted mock server URL that you can use in another application.

To use mock servers in Studio Web:

1. Open a project that has an OpenAPI file.
2. Publish the project to your workspace.
2. On the **API** tab, select an operation.
3. In the **Try It** area, select the **Mocking** down arrow, and then select **Enabled**.
4. Response codes (200, 201, 404, etc.) are shown based on the API spec. Choose a code, and then choose one of these options:
   - Dynamically generated: Responses are generated by Prism.
   - Statically generated: Responses are based on examples in the  OpenAPI spec.

5. Provide any needed parameters for the request, and then select **Send Request**.

![image.png](../assets/images/mocks-studio-web.png)


See returned sample information:

- **Reponse** shows sample data for the operation. 
- **Request Sample** shows a mock URL that you can use with any HTTP client.
- **Reponse Example**   

## Any HTTP Client

Use the hosted mock server in any HTTP client or front-end application.

Locate the mock server URL on the Description page for your API. Hover over the URL, and then select **Copy Server URL**.

![Mock Server URL](../assets/images/mocks-server-url.png)

Consider the hosted mock server to be a special server that's not mentioned in your API description. For example, if you have an OpenAPI description with the following servers:

```yaml
servers:
  - description: Production
    url: "https://api.example.com"
  - description: Staging
    url: "https://api.staging.example.com"
paths:
  /hello:
    get: 
      # ...
```

Swap that URL for your hosted Prism URL:

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
https://stoplight.io/mocks/{workspaceName}/{projectName}:{optionalBranchName}/{ID}
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

The actual contents of the responses depends on the examples in the API Description, if the request prefers static or dynamic mode, and if you requested specific status codes to come back. 

## Studio Desktop 

Studio Desktop automatically uses local mock servers. 

![Mocks in Studio Desktop](../assets/images/mocks-studio-desktop.png)

To use mock servers in Studio Desktop:

1. Open a project that has an OpenAPI file.
2. On the **API** tab, select an operation.
3. Add parameters to the request URL as required by the operation.
3. Select **Mocks**, and then select a link on the **Routes** tab at the bottom of the page.
4. A browser window opens showing sample data for the operation. You can choose to view the data in raw or parsed format.
5. Select the **Logs** tab to see information about the request. Use this information to adjust your API as needed.

![Mocks in Studio Desktop](../assets/images/mocks-studio-desktop-log.png)

Commit message:

Pam 208 elements updates (#216)
Changed "types of documentation" to reflect Stoplight-offered docs instead of general docs. Screenshot updates.

3.-design/d.setting-up-a-mock-server.md, after:

---
tags: [Design]
---

# Working with Mock Servers

Stoplight offers free, automatically updated HTTP mock servers for every API published in your workspace. These mock servers simulate real APIs by providing endpoints and validation rules described in your API documentation. 

This allows client developers to begin writing code for frontend services like web, mobile, or other backend applications while API developers are writing their code. This can help find and solve problems early on, before the API is built.

Stoplight mock servers are powered by our open-source mock server, [Prism](https://stoplight.io/open-source/prism). 

   <!-- theme: info -->

> #### Learn more about Prism
>
>- [Response Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#response-examples)
>- [Static Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#static-response-generation)
>- [Dynamic Generation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk1-http-mocking#dynamic-response-generation) 
>- [Request Validation](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjk2-request-validation)
>- [Help with Errors](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/prism/ZG9jOjE2MDY1NjY5-errors)

Use mock servers for any OpenAPI file:

- From the documentation for any endpoint in Studio Web.
-  From your own HTTP client or front-end applications. (First, import the Git project into a Stoplight project. Push your changes to Git, and then follow instructions for using hosted mock servers.)
- From any endpoint in Studio Desktop.

Mock servers can be used for all branches for projects that are up to date with the latest version of API specifications. 

## Studio Web

Use Studio Web to get sample data and a hosted mock server URL that you can use in another application.

To use mock servers from the documentation in Studio Web:

1. Edit a project that has an OpenAPI file.
2. Publish the project to your workspace.
2. In the **API** area of the left sidebar, select an operation.
3. From the **"Try It"** area, select the **Server** down arrow, and then select **Mock Server**.
4. In the **Mock Settings** list, response codes (200, 201, 404, etc.) are shown based on the API spec. Choose a code, and then choose one of these options:
   - Dynamically generated: Responses are generated by Prism.
   - Statically generated: Responses are based on examples in the  OpenAPI spec.

5. Provide any needed parameters for the request, and then select **Send API Request**.

![image.png](../assets/images/mocks-studio-web.png)


See returned sample information:

- **Reponse** shows sample data for the operation. 
- **Request Sample** shows a mock URL that you can use with any HTTP client.
- **Reponse Example**   

## Any HTTP Client

Use the hosted mock server in any HTTP client or front-end application.

Locate the mock server URL on the Description page for your API. Hover over the URL, and then select **Copy Server URL**.

![Mock Server URL](../assets/images/mocks-server-url.png)

Consider the hosted mock server to be a special server that's not mentioned in your API description. For example, if you have an OpenAPI description with the following servers:

```yaml
servers:
  - description: Production
    url: "https://api.example.com"
  - description: Staging
    url: "https://api.staging.example.com"
paths:
  /hello:
    get: 
      # ...
```

Swap that URL for your hosted Prism URL:

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
https://stoplight.io/mocks/{workspaceName}/{projectName}:{optionalBranchName}/{ID}
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

The actual contents of the responses depends on the examples in the API Description, if the request prefers static or dynamic mode, and if you requested specific status codes to come back. 

## Studio Desktop 

Studio Desktop automatically uses local mock servers. 

![Mocks in Studio Desktop](../assets/images/mocks-studio-desktop.png)

To use mock servers in Studio Desktop:

1. Open a project that has an OpenAPI file.
2. On the **API** tab, select an operation.
3. Add parameters to the request URL as required by the operation.
3. Select **Mocks**, and then select a link on the **Routes** tab at the bottom of the page.
4. A browser window opens showing sample data for the operation. You can choose to view the data in raw or parsed format.
5. Select the **Logs** tab to see information about the request. Use this information to adjust your API as needed.

![Mocks in Studio Desktop](../assets/images/mocks-studio-desktop-log.png)
