3.-design/design-overview.md, before:

---
tags: []
---

# API Design Overview

## What is API Design?

API Design (also known as Modeling) involves describing all of the inputs and outputs across the footprint of your entire service. Your API design will answer questions like:

- What are the different resources and operations available in your API?
- How does your API authenticate requests?
- What are the different data models associated with your service?
- How does your API handle errors?

## How does it fit into Stoplight?

Stoplight Studio is where you and your team will maintain the single source of truth that describes the inputs and outputs of your API.

Once you have your API described in Stoplight Studio, you can:

- Publish all or part of your API
- Send requests to your API to debug it
- Create a mock API based on your descriptions
- Validate your files with Spectral, our open-source API description linter
- ...and much more

## Getting Started

There are a few ways to get started designing your API with Stoplight Studio:

- [Design-First Principles](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/api-best-practices/ZG9jOjM2NTM5Nzc2-design-first-principles)
- [Understand the Directory Structure](../7.-projects/working-with-files.md#directory-structure)
- [Work with Models](http-endpoints.md)
- [Shared Components](shared-components.md)
- [Validation and Linting](validation-and-linting.md)

Commit message:

Pam 393 vale updates design (#416)
Vale updates and linting of design topics.

3.-design/design-overview.md, after:

---
tags: []
---

# API Design Overview

API Design (also known as Modeling) involves describing all the inputs and outputs across the footprint of your entire service. Your API design will answer questions like:

- What are the different resources and operations available in your API?
- How does your API authenticate requests?
- What are the different data models associated with your service?
- How does your API handle errors?

## API Design and Stoplight

Stoplight Studio is where you and your team will maintain the single source of truth that describes the inputs and outputs of your API.

Once you have your API described in Stoplight Studio, you can:

- Publish all or part of your API. See [Types of Documentation](../4.-documentation/b.types-of-documentation.md).
- Send requests to your API to debug it. See [Try It](try-it.md).
- Create a mock API based on your descriptions. See [Mock Servers](setting-up-a-mock-server.md).
- Validate your files with Spectral, the open-source API description linter.
- See [Validation and Linting](validation-and-linting.md).

## Get Started

There are a few ways to get started designing your API with Stoplight Studio:

- [Design-First Principles](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/api-best-practices/ZG9jOjM2NTM5Nzc2-design-first-principles)
- [Understand the Directory Structure](../7.-projects/working-with-files.md#directory-structure)
- [Work with Models](http-endpoints.md)
- [Shared Components](shared-components.md)
- [Validation and Linting](validation-and-linting.md)
